This code is a fork bomb. In Linux, the process continually took up more and more resources until the CPU was totally tied up. It stopped when I closed the terminal it was executed in. In my Windows machine, the process multiplied and multiplied, continually slowing down my system. The command prompt could not be closed, even with using task manager, but other windows could. Eventually I needed to restart.

The code enters an infinite loop (for(;;)), and in that loop the code runs itself (system(argv[0]), argv[0] is the name of the application, system() executes the argument). It makes copies of itself infinitely; it is a fork bomb. An attacker might use it to rob a target system of its resources (CPU namely) slowing down legitimate services it may be running and forcing a restart or the slowing down of services to a halt. 

A restart quickly fixes the affected machine. If an outsider is running this code via SSH or has in some way gained root privileges and remote access, he could trigger the attack again (though at that point he has more dangerous tools), and one would need to disconnect the attacker (perhaps by unplugging the ethernet cable or disconnecting from the network) and patch the issue that allowed access to begin with. If the program is installed on the computer and set to run at certain intervals, effectively poisoning the machine even through a restart, it would be difficult to find the source of the problem before it multiplied too many times and made it impossible to work with the computer. In this case it might be preferable to write a program that monitors the system for suspicious processes that create many copies of themselves and serve no other purpose; if there are many processes with the same name, chances are they are not legitimate and should all be stopped simultaneously. If the monitoring program finds a process that is taking up an unusual amount of resources, it could stop the program and verify it by looking for forks and requesting authorization from the user for the script to continue running.
